@actions/artifact doc updates (#1594)
actions/toolkit: packages/artifact/README.md

# `@actions/artifact`

Interact programmatically with [Actions Artifacts](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/storing-workflow-data-as-artifacts).

This is the core library that powers the [`@actions/upload-artifact`](https://github.com/actions/upload-artifact) and [`@actions/download-artifact`](https://github.com/actions/download-artifact) actions.

- [`@actions/artifact`](#actionsartifact)
  - [v2 - What's New](#v2---whats-new)
    - [Improvements](#improvements)
    - [Breaking changes](#breaking-changes)
  - [Quick Start](#quick-start)
  - [Examples](#examples)
    - [Upload and Download](#upload-and-download)
    - [Downloading from other workflow runs or repos](#downloading-from-other-workflow-runs-or-repos)
    - [Speeding up large uploads](#speeding-up-large-uploads)
  - [Additional Resources](#additional-resources)

> ## v2 - What's New

Reviewer: so v2 is to support Artifacts v4?

Reviewer: do you think we could follow the same versioning? can these be aligned? bad idea?

Author: I don't think so, it'll cause some confusion on the missing v3 and v4 versions.

And even if we did, the actions will probably deviate in the future too

> [!IMPORTANT]

> > @actions/artifact v2+, download-artifact@v4+ download-artifact@v4+ are not currently supported on GHES yet. The previous version of this package can be found at [this tag](https://github.com/actions/toolkit/tree/@actions/artifact@1.1.2/packages/artifact) and [on npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@actions/artifact/v/1.1.2).

Reviewer: I can see download twice

Author: https://github.com/actions/toolkit/pull/1594/commits/49ef8b93a8eddbbb3aca5a346e878747b4ac41dd

> The release of `@actions/artifact@v2` (including `download-artifact@v4` and `download-artifact@v4`) are major changes to the backend architecture of Artifacts. They have numerous performance and behavioral improvements.

Reviewer: same as above

Author: https://github.com/actions/toolkit/pull/1594/commits/49ef8b93a8eddbbb3aca5a346e878747b4ac41dd

### Improvements

1. All upload and download operations are much quicker, up to 80% faster download times and 96% faster upload times in worst case scenarios.

> 2. Once uploaded, Artifacts are immediately available in the UI and [REST API](https://docs.github.com/en/rest/actions/artifacts). Previously, you would have to wait for the run to be completed.

Author: I like the two bullet points! I'll add that

> 2. Once uploaded, Artifacts becoming immediately available in the UI and [REST API](https://docs.github.com/en/rest/actions/artifacts). Previously, you would have to wait for the run to be completed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Once uploaded, Artifacts are immediately available in the UI and [REST API](https://docs.github.com/en/rest/actions/artifacts). Previously, you would have to wait for the run to be completed.
```

> 3. Artifacts are _immutable_ once they are uploaded. They cannot be altered by subsequent jobs. (Digest/integrity hash coming soon in the API!)

Reviewer 3: I feel like we could add a note about improvements to reduce the number of corrupt artifact downloads from the UI or APIs. Due to the dynamic nature of v1-v3 artifacts during the job upload/download were fine however form the UI or API afterwards there could be all sorts of potential issues and corrupt artifacts. The chances of that happening now are basically nonexistent.

This somewhat ties into having an intergrity hash but a separate bullet point might make sense as well

Author: That's a great point, I'll try to cook that into something

Author: I extended the existing point with some more context: https://github.com/actions/toolkit/pull/1594/commits/2e6c9a1f14ae6be31c7e12891d84ec18583b59d9

> 3. Artifacts are _immutable_ once they are uploaded. They cannot be altered by subsequent jobs. (Digest/integrity hash coming soon in API!)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Artifacts are _immutable_ once they are uploaded. They cannot be altered by subsequent jobs. (Digest/integrity hash coming soon in the API!)
```

4. This library (and `actions/download-artifact`) now support downloading Artifacts from _other_ repositories and runs if a `GITHUB_TOKEN` with sufficient `actions:read` permissions are provided.

> ### Breaking changes

Reviewer 3: Don't think we mention the 10 artifacts per job limit anywhere. For certain users that's definitely a breaking change

Reviewer 3: A test for this in the workflow file (in another PR), might be good as well

Author: https://github.com/actions/toolkit/pull/1594/commits/8cd4434523366d14fadbabdedb7857ac224caee5

1. Firewall rules required for self-hosted runners.

    If you are using self-hosted runners behind a firewall, you must have flows open to [Actions endpoints](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/hosting-your-own-runners/managing-self-hosted-runners/about-self-hosted-runners#communication-between-self-hosted-runners-and-github). If you cannot use wildcard rules for your firewall, see the GitHub [meta endpoint](https://api.github.com/meta) for specific endpoints.

    e.g.

    ```
    curl https://api.github.com/meta | jq .domains.actions
    ```

2. Uploading to the same named Artifact multiple times.

>     Due to the behavior of how Artifacts are created in this new version, it is no longer possible to upload to the same named Artifact multiple times. You must either split the uploads into multiple names Artifacts, or only upload once.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Due to how Artifacts are created in this new version, it is no longer possible to upload to the same named Artifact multiple times. You must either split the uploads into multiple Artifacts with different names, or only upload once.
```

## Quick Start

Install the package:

```
npm i @actions/artifact
```

Import the module:

```js
// ES6 module
import artifact from '@actions/artifact'

// CommonJS
const {default: artifact} = require('@actions/artifact')
```

ℹ️ For a comprehensive list of classes, interfaces, functions and more, see the [generated documentation](./docs/generated/README.md).

## Examples

### Upload and Download

> This is the most basic scenario, uploading one or more files to an Artifact, then downloading it. Downloads are based on the Artifact ID, which can be obtained in the response of `uploadArtifact`, `getArtifact`, `listArtifacts` or via the [REST API](https://docs.github.com/en/rest/actions/artifacts).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The most basic scenario is uploading one or more files to an Artifact, then downloading that Artifact. Downloads are based on the Artifact ID, which can be obtained in the response of `uploadArtifact`, `getArtifact`, `listArtifacts` or via the [REST API](https://docs.github.com/en/rest/actions/artifacts).
```

### Breaking changes

1. Firewall rules required for self-hosted runners.

    If you are using self-hosted runners behind a firewall, you must have flows open to [Actions endpoints](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/hosting-your-own-runners/managing-self-hosted-runners/about-self-hosted-runners#communication-between-self-hosted-runners-and-github). If you cannot use wildcard rules for your firewall, see the GitHub [meta endpoint](https://api.github.com/meta) for specific endpoints.

    e.g.

    ```
    curl https://api.github.com/meta | jq .domains.actions
    ```

2. Uploading to the same named Artifact multiple times.

    Due to how Artifacts are created in this new version, it is no longer possible to upload to the same named Artifact multiple times. You must either split the uploads into multiple Artifacts with different names, or only upload once.

3. Limit of Artifacts for an individual job.

    Each job in a workflow run now has a limit of 10 artifacts.

## Quick Start

Install the package:

> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```bash
```
